sphinxdoc/fx.rst, before:

Effect Nodes
============

.. automodule:: libavg.avg
    :no-members:

    .. inheritance-diagram:: BlurFXNode ChromaKeyFXNode HueSatFXNode InvertFXNode NullFXNode ShadowFXNode
        :parts: 1

    .. autoclass:: BlurFXNode(radius=1.0)

        Blurs the node it is applied to. Corresponds to the Gaussian Blur effect in 
        Photoshop.

        .. py:attribute:: radius

            The width of the blur. This corresponds to the radius parameter of
            photoshop.

    .. autoclass:: ChromaKeyFXNode

        Chroma keying is the process of removing a uniformly colored background from an
        image. The background is then replaced with a different image or video.
        Actors are filmed in front of a blue- or green-colored background and chroma 
        keying is used to insert a different background.
        
        The :py:class:`ChromaKeyFXNode` implements a high-quality realtime chroma key
        (greenscreen or bluescreen) effect. It replaces all pixels that are similar to a
        configured key color with transparency and can account for noise in the 
        background area as well as remove color spill from the background to the
        foreground. All of the parameters can be manipulated for test purposes using the 
        :program:`avg_chromakey.py` script. The effect is carried out in the HSL 
        colorspace (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HSL_and_HSV).

        .. py:attribute:: color

            The color to key out. Pixels of this and similar colors are made transparent.

        .. py:attribute:: erosion

            Removes single non-keyed-out pixels in larger transparent areas. Values > 1
            remove larger areas. Useful for removing camera noise.

        .. py:attribute:: htolerance

            Hue tolerance for the key color. 

        .. py:attribute:: ltolerance

            Lightness tolerance for the key color. 

        .. py:attribute:: softness

            :py:attr:`softness` > 0 causes pixels with a color close to the keyed-out
            colors to become partially transparent. Greater values increase this effect.

        .. py:attribute:: spillthreshold

            Often, people in greenscreen studios aquire a greenish tint. Spill removal 
            works against this by desaturating pixels that are close to the key color.
            Larger values cause more desaturation.

        .. py:attribute:: stolerance

            Saturation tolerance for the key color. 

    .. autoclass:: FXNode

        Base class for GPU-based effects. These effects can be added to any 
        :py:class:`RasterNode` by calling :py:meth:`RasterNode.setEffect`.

    .. autoclass:: HueSatFXNode(hue=0.0, saturation=0.0, lightness=0.0, colorize=False)

        Color correction filter that works by converting pixels to the hsl color space 
        (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HSL_and_HSV), changing the values there and 
        converting back to rgb. Can be used to change hue,
        saturation and lightness of a node. Corresponds to the Photoshop Hue/Saturation 
        dialog.

        .. py:attribute:: colorize

           If :py:attr:`colorize` is :py:const:`True`, all colors will be tinted 
           according to the current :py:attr:`hue` value. Otherwise, :py:attr:`hue` is
           treated as a difference value.

        .. py:attribute:: hue

           Used to get/set the color angle in degrees. Effective values are 0..360 or
           -180..180, depending on the :py:attr:`colorize` value.

        .. py:attribute:: lightness
           
           Set :py:attr:`lightness` offset. Adds a per pixel offset in brightness. Values
           range from -100 to 100, with -100 being very dark and 100 very bright.

        .. py:attribute:: saturation
           
           Set :py:attr:`saturation` of Node. In :py:attr:`colorize` mode, this is the
           overall image saturation in the range 0..100, with 0 being greyscale and 100
           very oversaturated. If :py:attr:`colorize` is false, the attribute is an
           offset from -100 to 100.

    .. autoclass:: InvertFXNode

        Color Invert Effect. Inverts the brightness of nodes that it is attached to.

    .. autoclass:: NullFXNode

        Do-nothing effect. Exists primarily as aid in debugging libavg.

    .. autoclass:: ShadowFXNode(offset=(0,0), radius=1.0, opacity=1.0, color="FFFFFF")

        Adds a shadow behind the node.

        .. py:attribute:: offset

            An adjustment to the shadow's position behind the node in pixels.        

        .. py:attribute:: radius

            The blur radius of the shadow.

        .. py:attribute:: opacity

            The opacity of the shadow.

        .. py:attribute:: color

            The shadow color.

Commit message:

Added docs for Player.areFullShadersSupported.
git-svn-id: https://www.libavg.de/svn/trunk/libavg@9258 44470bb9-56e9-0310-a0f8-c586564d3dc6

sphinxdoc/fx.rst, after:

Effect Nodes
============

.. automodule:: libavg.avg
    :no-members:

    .. inheritance-diagram:: BlurFXNode ChromaKeyFXNode HueSatFXNode InvertFXNode NullFXNode ShadowFXNode
        :parts: 1

    .. autoclass:: BlurFXNode(radius=1.0)

        Blurs the node it is applied to. Corresponds to the Gaussian Blur effect in 
        Photoshop.

        Not supported under minimal shaders. Programs can call
        :py:meth:`Player.areFullShadersSupported` to ensure support.

        .. py:attribute:: radius

            The width of the blur. This corresponds to the radius parameter of
            photoshop.

    .. autoclass:: ChromaKeyFXNode

        Chroma keying is the process of removing a uniformly colored background from an
        image. The background is then replaced with a different image or video.
        Actors are filmed in front of a blue- or green-colored background and chroma 
        keying is used to insert a different background.
        
        The :py:class:`ChromaKeyFXNode` implements a high-quality realtime chroma key
        (greenscreen or bluescreen) effect. It replaces all pixels that are similar to a
        configured key color with transparency and can account for noise in the 
        background area as well as remove color spill from the background to the
        foreground. All of the parameters can be manipulated for test purposes using the 
        :program:`avg_chromakey.py` script. The effect is carried out in the HSL 
        colorspace (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HSL_and_HSV).

        Not supported under minimal shaders. Programs can call
        :py:meth:`Player.areFullShadersSupported` to ensure support.

        .. py:attribute:: color

            The color to key out. Pixels of this and similar colors are made transparent.

        .. py:attribute:: erosion

            Removes single non-keyed-out pixels in larger transparent areas. Values > 1
            remove larger areas. Useful for removing camera noise.

        .. py:attribute:: htolerance

            Hue tolerance for the key color. 

        .. py:attribute:: ltolerance

            Lightness tolerance for the key color. 

        .. py:attribute:: softness

            :py:attr:`softness` > 0 causes pixels with a color close to the keyed-out
            colors to become partially transparent. Greater values increase this effect.

        .. py:attribute:: spillthreshold

            Often, people in greenscreen studios aquire a greenish tint. Spill removal 
            works against this by desaturating pixels that are close to the key color.
            Larger values cause more desaturation.

        .. py:attribute:: stolerance

            Saturation tolerance for the key color. 

    .. autoclass:: FXNode

        Base class for GPU-based effects. These effects can be added to any 
        :py:class:`RasterNode` by calling :py:meth:`RasterNode.setEffect`.

    .. autoclass:: HueSatFXNode(hue=0.0, saturation=0.0, lightness=0.0, colorize=False)

        Color correction filter that works by converting pixels to the hsl color space 
        (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HSL_and_HSV), changing the values there and 
        converting back to rgb. Can be used to change hue,
        saturation and lightness of a node. Corresponds to the Photoshop Hue/Saturation 
        dialog.

        .. py:attribute:: colorize

           If :py:attr:`colorize` is :py:const:`True`, all colors will be tinted 
           according to the current :py:attr:`hue` value. Otherwise, :py:attr:`hue` is
           treated as a difference value.

        .. py:attribute:: hue

           Used to get/set the color angle in degrees. Effective values are 0..360 or
           -180..180, depending on the :py:attr:`colorize` value.

        .. py:attribute:: lightness
           
           Set :py:attr:`lightness` offset. Adds a per pixel offset in brightness. Values
           range from -100 to 100, with -100 being very dark and 100 very bright.

        .. py:attribute:: saturation
           
           Set :py:attr:`saturation` of Node. In :py:attr:`colorize` mode, this is the
           overall image saturation in the range 0..100, with 0 being greyscale and 100
           very oversaturated. If :py:attr:`colorize` is false, the attribute is an
           offset from -100 to 100.

    .. autoclass:: InvertFXNode

        Color Invert Effect. Inverts the brightness of nodes that it is attached to.

    .. autoclass:: NullFXNode

        Do-nothing effect. Exists primarily as aid in debugging libavg.

    .. autoclass:: ShadowFXNode(offset=(0,0), radius=1.0, opacity=1.0, color="FFFFFF")

        Adds a shadow behind the node.

        Not supported under minimal shaders. Programs can call
        :py:meth:`Player.areFullShadersSupported` to ensure support.

        .. py:attribute:: offset

            An adjustment to the shadow's position behind the node in pixels.        

        .. py:attribute:: radius

            The blur radius of the shadow.

        .. py:attribute:: opacity

            The opacity of the shadow.

        .. py:attribute:: color

            The shadow color.
