sphinxdoc/vectornodes.rst, before:

Vector Nodes
============

.. automodule:: libavg.avg
    :no-members:

    .. inheritance-diagram:: CircleNode CurveNode FilledVectorNode LineNode MeshNode Node PolygonNode PolyLineNode RectNode VectorNode libavg.geom.Arc libavg.geom.PieSlice libavg.geom.RoundedRect
        :parts: 1

    .. autoclass:: CircleNode([r=1, texcoord1=0, texcoord2=1])

        A circle. The reference point for a circle is its center.

        .. py:attribute:: r

            The radius of the circle in pixels.

        .. py:attribute:: texcoord1

        .. py:attribute:: texcoord2

    .. autoclass:: CurveNode([pos1, pos2, pos3, pos4, texcoord1, texcoord2])

        A cubic bezier curve (`<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bezier_curve>`_). 
        :py:attr:`pos1` and :py:attr:`pos4` are the two endpoints of the curve. 
        :py:attr:`pos2` and :py:attr:`pos3` are control points.

        .. py:attribute:: pos1

        .. py:attribute:: pos2

        .. py:attribute:: pos3

        .. py:attribute:: pos4

        .. py:attribute:: texcoord1

        .. py:attribute:: texcoord2

    .. autoclass:: FilledVectorNode([filltexhref, fillopacity=0, fillcolor="FFFFFF", filltexcoord1=Point2D(0,0), filltexcoord2=Point2D(1,1)])

        Base class for vector nodes which have a filled area and a border. The area can
        be filled either with a solid color (:py:attr:`fillcolor`) or with a texture
        loaded from a file (:py:attr:`filltexhref`) or taken from a bitmap object 
        (:py:meth:`setFillBitmap`).

        .. py:attribute:: fillcolor

        .. py:attribute:: fillopacity

        .. py:attribute:: filltexcoord1

        .. py:attribute:: filltexcoord2

        .. py:attribute:: filltexhref

            An image file to use as a texture for the area of the node.

        .. py:method:: setFillBitmap(bitmap)

            Sets a bitmap to use as a fill texture. Sets :attr:`filltexhref` to an empty
            string.

    .. autoclass:: LineNode([pos1, pos2, texcoord1, texcoord2])

        A line. :py:attr:`pos1` and :py:attr:`pos2` are the two endpoints of the line.

        .. py:attribute:: pos1

        .. py:attribute:: pos2

        .. py:attribute:: texcoord1

        .. py:attribute:: texcoord2

    .. autoclass:: MeshNode([vertexcoords, texcoords, triangles])

        This is a generalized mesh of textured triangles. See 
        https://www.libavg.de/wiki/ProgrammersGuide/MeshNode for an example.

        .. py:attribute:: texcoords

        .. py:attribute:: triangles

        .. py:attribute:: vertexcoords

    .. autoclass:: PolygonNode([linejoin="bevel", pos, texcoords])

        A closed figure bounded by a number of line segments, optionally filled. Filled
        polygons may not be self-intersecting.

        .. py:attribute:: linejoin

            The method by which line segments are joined together. Valid values are 
            :py:const:`bevel` and :py:const:`miter`.

        .. py:attribute:: pos

            A sequence (:py:class:`list` or :py:class:`tuple`) of pixel positions.

        .. py:attribute:: texcoords

            A sequence of float texture coordinates corresponding to the border positions.
            
    .. autoclass:: PolyLineNode([linejoin="bevel", pos, texcoords])

        A figure similar to a :py:class:`PolygonNode`, but not closed and never filled. 

        .. py:attribute:: linejoin

            The method by which line segments are joined together. Valid values are 
            :py:const:`bevel` and :py:const:`miter`.

        .. py:attribute:: pos

            A sequence (:py:class:`list` or :py:class:`tuple`) of pixel positions.

        .. py:attribute:: texcoords

            A sequence of float texture coordinates corresponding to the border positions.
            
    .. autoclass:: RectNode([pos, size, angle])

        A rectangle that can be filled.

        .. py:attribute:: angle

            The angle that the rectangle is rotated to in radians. 0 is
            unchanged, 3.14 is upside-down. The rectangle is rotated around its
            center.

        .. py:attribute:: pos

            The position of the top left corner of the rectangle.

        .. py:attribute:: size

        .. py:attribute:: texcoords

    .. autoclass:: VectorNode([color="FFFFFF", strokewidth=1, texhref, blendmode="blend"])

        Base class for all nodes that draw geometrical primitives. All vector nodes 
        support configurable stroke width. Strokes can be filled either with a solid 
        color (:py:attr:`color`) or with a texture loaded from a file 
        (:py:attr:`texhref`) or taken from a bitmap object (:py:meth:`setBitmap`).

        .. py:attribute:: blendmode

            The method of compositing the node with the nodes under
            it. Valid values are :py:const:`blend`, :py:const:`add`, :py:const:`min` 
            and :py:const:`max`. For :py:const:`min` and :py:const:`max`
            blend modes, opacity is ignored.

        .. py:attribute:: color

            The color of the strokes in standard html color notation:
            :samp:`"FF0000"` is red, :samp:`"00FF00"` green, etc.

        .. py:attribute:: strokewidth

            The width of the strokes in the vector. For lines, this is the line
            width. For rectangles, it is the width of the outline, etc.

        .. py:attribute:: texhref

            An image file to use as a texture for the node.

        .. py:method:: setBitmap(bitmap)

            Sets a bitmap to use as a texture. Sets :attr:`texhref` to an empty
            string.

.. automodule:: libavg.geom
    :no-members:

    .. autoclass:: Arc(radius, startangle, endangle[, pos=(0,0)])

        An unfilled arc (incomplete circle) from :py:attr:`startangle` to 
        :py:attr:`endangle`. :py:attr:`pos` is the center of the circle.

        .. py:attribute:: endangle

        .. py:attribute:: pos

        .. py:attribute:: radius

        .. py:attribute:: startangle


    .. autoclass:: PieSlice(radius, startangle, endangle[, pos=(0,0)])

        An arc (incomplete circle) from :py:attr:`startangle` to 
        :py:attr:`endangle` connected to the center of the circle. :py:attr:`pos` is the
        center of the circle. A :py:class:`PieSlice` can be filled.

        .. py:attribute:: endangle

        .. py:attribute:: pos

        .. py:attribute:: radius

        .. py:attribute:: startangle


    .. autoclass:: RoundedRect(size, radius, pos)

        A rectangle with rounded corners. :py:attr:`radius` is the corner radius.

        .. py:attribute:: pos

        .. py:attribute:: radius

        .. py:attribute:: size

Commit message:

Docs for CurveNode.getPtOnCurve() and .length
git-svn-id: https://www.libavg.de/svn/trunk/libavg@9290 44470bb9-56e9-0310-a0f8-c586564d3dc6

sphinxdoc/vectornodes.rst, after:

Vector Nodes
============

.. automodule:: libavg.avg
    :no-members:

    .. inheritance-diagram:: CircleNode CurveNode FilledVectorNode LineNode MeshNode Node PolygonNode PolyLineNode RectNode VectorNode libavg.geom.Arc libavg.geom.PieSlice libavg.geom.RoundedRect
        :parts: 1

    .. autoclass:: CircleNode([r=1, texcoord1=0, texcoord2=1])

        A circle. The reference point for a circle is its center.

        .. py:attribute:: r

            The radius of the circle in pixels.

        .. py:attribute:: texcoord1

        .. py:attribute:: texcoord2

    .. autoclass:: CurveNode([pos1, pos2, pos3, pos4, texcoord1, texcoord2])

        A cubic bezier curve (`<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bezier_curve>`_). 
        :py:attr:`pos1` and :py:attr:`pos4` are the two endpoints of the curve. 
        :py:attr:`pos2` and :py:attr:`pos3` are control points.

        .. py:method:: getPtOnCurve(t) -> pos

            Returns a point on the curve. Which point is determined by the value of t.
            If :samp:`t=0`, returns :py:attr:`pos1`. :samp:`t=1` returns :py:attr:`pos4`,
            and values in between return the points in between.

        .. py:attribute:: length (ro)

            Returns an approximation of the length of the curve.

        .. py:attribute:: pos1

        .. py:attribute:: pos2

        .. py:attribute:: pos3

        .. py:attribute:: pos4

        .. py:attribute:: texcoord1

        .. py:attribute:: texcoord2

    .. autoclass:: FilledVectorNode([filltexhref, fillopacity=0, fillcolor="FFFFFF", filltexcoord1=Point2D(0,0), filltexcoord2=Point2D(1,1)])

        Base class for vector nodes which have a filled area and a border. The area can
        be filled either with a solid color (:py:attr:`fillcolor`) or with a texture
        loaded from a file (:py:attr:`filltexhref`) or taken from a bitmap object 
        (:py:meth:`setFillBitmap`).

        .. py:attribute:: fillcolor

        .. py:attribute:: fillopacity

        .. py:attribute:: filltexcoord1

        .. py:attribute:: filltexcoord2

        .. py:attribute:: filltexhref

            An image file to use as a texture for the area of the node.

        .. py:method:: setFillBitmap(bitmap)

            Sets a bitmap to use as a fill texture. Sets :attr:`filltexhref` to an empty
            string.

    .. autoclass:: LineNode([pos1, pos2, texcoord1, texcoord2])

        A line. :py:attr:`pos1` and :py:attr:`pos2` are the two endpoints of the line.

        .. py:attribute:: pos1

        .. py:attribute:: pos2

        .. py:attribute:: texcoord1

        .. py:attribute:: texcoord2

    .. autoclass:: MeshNode([vertexcoords, texcoords, triangles])

        This is a generalized mesh of textured triangles. See 
        https://www.libavg.de/wiki/ProgrammersGuide/MeshNode for an example.

        .. py:attribute:: texcoords

        .. py:attribute:: triangles

        .. py:attribute:: vertexcoords

    .. autoclass:: PolygonNode([linejoin="bevel", pos, texcoords])

        A closed figure bounded by a number of line segments, optionally filled. Filled
        polygons may not be self-intersecting.

        .. py:attribute:: linejoin

            The method by which line segments are joined together. Valid values are 
            :py:const:`bevel` and :py:const:`miter`.

        .. py:attribute:: pos

            A sequence (:py:class:`list` or :py:class:`tuple`) of pixel positions.

        .. py:attribute:: texcoords

            A sequence of float texture coordinates corresponding to the border positions.
            
    .. autoclass:: PolyLineNode([linejoin="bevel", pos, texcoords])

        A figure similar to a :py:class:`PolygonNode`, but not closed and never filled. 

        .. py:attribute:: linejoin

            The method by which line segments are joined together. Valid values are 
            :py:const:`bevel` and :py:const:`miter`.

        .. py:attribute:: pos

            A sequence (:py:class:`list` or :py:class:`tuple`) of pixel positions.

        .. py:attribute:: texcoords

            A sequence of float texture coordinates corresponding to the border positions.
            
    .. autoclass:: RectNode([pos, size, angle])

        A rectangle that can be filled.

        .. py:attribute:: angle

            The angle that the rectangle is rotated to in radians. 0 is
            unchanged, 3.14 is upside-down. The rectangle is rotated around its
            center.

        .. py:attribute:: pos

            The position of the top left corner of the rectangle.

        .. py:attribute:: size

        .. py:attribute:: texcoords

    .. autoclass:: VectorNode([color="FFFFFF", strokewidth=1, texhref, blendmode="blend"])

        Base class for all nodes that draw geometrical primitives. All vector nodes 
        support configurable stroke width. Strokes can be filled either with a solid 
        color (:py:attr:`color`) or with a texture loaded from a file 
        (:py:attr:`texhref`) or taken from a bitmap object (:py:meth:`setBitmap`).

        .. py:attribute:: blendmode

            The method of compositing the node with the nodes under
            it. Valid values are :py:const:`blend`, :py:const:`add`, :py:const:`min` 
            and :py:const:`max`. For :py:const:`min` and :py:const:`max`
            blend modes, opacity is ignored.

        .. py:attribute:: color

            The color of the strokes in standard html color notation:
            :samp:`"FF0000"` is red, :samp:`"00FF00"` green, etc.

        .. py:attribute:: strokewidth

            The width of the strokes in the vector. For lines, this is the line
            width. For rectangles, it is the width of the outline, etc.

        .. py:attribute:: texhref

            An image file to use as a texture for the node.

        .. py:method:: setBitmap(bitmap)

            Sets a bitmap to use as a texture. Sets :attr:`texhref` to an empty
            string.

.. automodule:: libavg.geom
    :no-members:

    .. autoclass:: Arc(radius, startangle, endangle[, pos=(0,0)])

        An unfilled arc (incomplete circle) from :py:attr:`startangle` to 
        :py:attr:`endangle`. :py:attr:`pos` is the center of the circle.

        .. py:attribute:: endangle

        .. py:attribute:: pos

        .. py:attribute:: radius

        .. py:attribute:: startangle


    .. autoclass:: PieSlice(radius, startangle, endangle[, pos=(0,0)])

        An arc (incomplete circle) from :py:attr:`startangle` to 
        :py:attr:`endangle` connected to the center of the circle. :py:attr:`pos` is the
        center of the circle. A :py:class:`PieSlice` can be filled.

        .. py:attribute:: endangle

        .. py:attribute:: pos

        .. py:attribute:: radius

        .. py:attribute:: startangle


    .. autoclass:: RoundedRect(size, radius, pos)

        A rectangle with rounded corners. :py:attr:`radius` is the corner radius.

        .. py:attribute:: pos

        .. py:attribute:: radius

        .. py:attribute:: size
